---
title:  "Career"
date:   2020-11-29 13:57:00 -0800
categories: update
---

It's almost the holidays, and I am lonely as usual.

When was the last time I sat down and just wrote? I haven't done it enough to find my voice. More often than not, I pass my days on the "IV drip of internet pseudoscience" (tjcx.me). What can I actually do with the many hours of my life? We'll be coming up on a year in quarantine. That's 365 days, and if I did my back-of-the-envelope calculations correctly, `365 * 6 = 2000` hours to explore passions outside of work. Heck, that's time enough to become a competent violist! Or a competent however-many-other-things. Unfortunately, I've been saying this to myself for 3-4 years, to no effect.  
Internally, I've labeled 2017 as the year that everything went to shit. Labeling this year allows me to confine the problem to a manageable scope; to keep perspective. My life is not unsalvageable. That special spark must still exist somewhere deep inside of me, tho it has lay dormant for 3 years.

Also. What are active activities I can do over the weekend to improve my life? AATAII, lol. (Why do I never do them? Why do I get caught in whirlpools of doom? I have a negative-feedback thought pattern that I'm all too familiar with. The only way to break out of it is to get up and do something, especially when I don't feel like it. I can't become Tim Ferriss or whoever in a day. But I can make it a good day.)

Let's talk about my career.  
What are my skills? (I should go back through college and run my hands over the algorithms and coding languages I learned.)  
What do I want to do next? What are my latent goals?  
What in the Harvard course catalog can help me towards these goals?  
What skills am i missing for interesting jobs (like haralabob’s)?  
Mathematicians and pro basketball players peak at 26. Brain & body development seems to level off at about that age. Am I ready to make the most of my mental prime? I still feel underdeveloped socially. If I expect to do any more innate skill building in my life, it has to take place in the next two years. What is most important? Theoretical math? Reading & writing technical research? Becoming more gregarious? Developing anti-procrastination habits? All of the above... that feels overwhelming.
Go on crimson careers and type stuff into the search box. Maybe crimson careers is only an inadequate first step, but that doesn't mean I shouldn't take it. At least type >1 queries into the search box! At this stage, I'm just looking for concept clouds. And drilling down on concept clouds like climate/energy, good food, global health & development/poverty, bio/nanotech, and other EA-ish stuff. Social good with a mathy tint. Oh, plus biology for Nate.

TODO \* Time to run my hands over my previous work, the course catalog, and job resources. (What are my skills?)
I looked at my old TeXed psets. Lord almighty, I sank so many hours into reading equations, moving around variables in my head, and barely wrapping my head around very thick concepts like variational autoencoders. And then I just forgot it all. I forgot every single fact about deep Bayesian models.  
I'm reading Weike Wang's "Chemistry", and I'm mesmerized by her take on the life of a professional scientist. In PhD labs, 90% of experiments are failures. You throw stuff at the wall and see what sticks. I find myself nodding along and recalling the second half of CS287 and CS282. Learning those things (transformers, question answering, [subgraph NNs](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2006.10538.pdf) etc) felt a lot more ad hoc than, say, learning calculus 5 years earlier (where all the parts of puzzle fit together beautifully). That's the reality of cutting-edge science, I guess. People experiment, and theorists come in afterward to knit it all together.  
Maybe what I'm saying, then, is that I should've taken CS121. It wouldn't have helped me find an internship, but... who cares?
I wonder, what do the bleeding edges of other fields look like?? What is, for example, the bleeding edge of... ... comparative literature? Answer: [Peripheral modernism and third world aesthetics](https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/arts/english/research/currentprojects/collective/project/pmtwa). I tried to read this and tried quite hard to follow along, but I just didn't have enough context. Dragging my eyes over the page felt like dragging a sled over metal spikes. To these authors, Kafka, Joyce, and Faulkner are as mainstream as the Nile. MacDiarmid, Vallejo, Kadare, Multatuli are where it's at.  
What about the bleeding edge of economics? I wrote a technical survey paper of high-frequency trading. (Funnily enough, it's kinda relevant to the news, what with Gamestop and Citadel Securities madness.) I remember contrasting two mathematical models of HFT, and saying that one of them had some variable to account for some phenomenon-or-the-other. Whatever. As usual I can hardly remember.  
That reminds me of reading the Gazette's [Math model suggests optimal covid treatment strategies](https://news.harvard.edu/gazette/story/2021/01/math-model-suggests-optimal-coronavirus-treatment-strategies/). The model, it turns out, was a series of meticulously designed PDEs.  
Is this hopelessly boring? Actually no, tuning models seems like it could be a good niche for me. I have the math background. There's room for experimentation. There's room to explore adjacent fields. And there's a good mix of theory and application. And if I'm working in industry, there's the potential to improve world outcomes.  
Wait, but is there actually a good mix of theory and application? What math is there? If it's just statistical inference and hypothesis testing, idk. If it feels like AM108 (homoclinic whatevers and bifurcations), I'd be more intrigued. Though I find it hard to imagine learning new math on the job. Instead, I'd being observing real-world applications of phenomena from the textbook.
Like that one time I saw a giraffe *crossing the road* in Nylsvley, South Africa. My jaw hit the dirt road. My brain paused. Sure, I knew these things existed in Youtube videos and pictures; maybe I'd even see one at the zoo. But *a family of 3 wild giraffes, walking across the road not 50 meters away from us?* It was an air-tingling minute.  
I shouldn't expect to use _fancy math_ in my job any time soon. I should focus on reasonably and intelligently applying simple methods, while being creative, and while continuing to learn on the side.  
What does the bleeding edge of biotech look like? I have no idea. Nchinda-Pudong's [story](https://www.seas.harvard.edu/news/2020/12/rhodes-scholar-blends-bioengineering-and-sociology) is a 5-star inspiring path. Start with basic science in high school, take some courses and join a lab, then do practical stuff (engineers without borders, GAMI) that implements cheaper, scalable solutions in developing countries. And to top it off, study the social sciences for moral perspective. GAMI is a cool club. They take bio-adjacent and CS-adjacent students. They look for OpenCV and React Native.  
I can picture myself joining the club. I sign up, full of enthusiasm, and confident I can budget enough time for it. I hang in for a couple weeks. I fall behind and am not held accountable. I get discouraged, realizing everyone else is better than me at this. I take too long to _do_ things... I sit around making notes. For every minute I spend tinkering, I spend 4 minutes making notes.
It is 2021. I knew I had all these problems 3 years ago.  
The problem with Harvard is, I just forgot everything immediately after learning it. I didn't know what I was doing. I was thrashing wildly, and dealing with other serious problems (depression, isolation, procrastination, sleep deprivation). The only things that sank into my bones were CS50, Stat110, and CS181.  
What does the bleeding edge of [linguistics] or [statistics] or [philosophy] or [mathematics] or [applied physics] look like? What about [anthropology of energy] or [French social thought] or [medieval love poetry] or [politics of inequality] or [neuroscience history] or [the art of film]? Again, highly technical. Ok, I'm pretty sure I don't want to spend my next 3 years going to the bleeding edge of anything. But I _do_ want to keep learning these things!


### Confusion
I have a deep-seated confusion that is festering in my mind. Everyone on LinkedIn says they've applied to 500 internships and heard back from 2. Yet, there are intractable problems in the world which desperately need more people to work on them. Which are primarily constrained by human capital. Companies exist (like Instacart) which are "hiring like crazy". What can explain such a mismatch? Whenever I try to think about this, my brain throws a segmentation fault.  
Maybe it's because everyone on LinkedIn is competing for high-paying snake jobs. But that can't be right-- economics says we pay for things which make our lives better. Economics says the biggest problems attract the most resources-- human, monetary, and otherwise. Demand attracts supply. People demand to not have their cities turn into desert wastelands, and this attracts a supply of companies and jobs.  
But perhaps these intractable problems (like climate change, urban sewage) go unaddressed because it's hard to come up with good business models for them. This would be a good argument for studying business and founding/joining an early-stage company. (It's not a good argument for studying business and joining upper management at Walmart, btw.)  

Maybe it's because concentration of power, and un-concentration of middle-class power (the collective action problem), distorts market outcomes. Yeah, that's probably part of it. See scott alexander's article "Why is there so little money in politics?". But still...  
Maybe it's because there are too many unskilled laborers and too few skilled laborers. I.e., in this new world, only the best/smartest ideas are worth anything, and everything else is worth very little. Eh, I don't know. Social science says that the influx of immigrants-- even unskilled immigrants-- is one of the most positive economic things that can happen to a region. (Patrick Collison referenced a study.)  
Matt Yglesias says we should have 1 billion Americans, and he must have some idea what these extra people are gonna go and do. He must have some idea how to avoid a labor oversupply & unemployment disaster. What is that idea?  
(Maybe if I paid more attention in class in SW27, I'd be less confused.)

There is near infinite work to be done. How could anyone be unemployed? There is near infinite content to be consumed. How could anyone be bored?  
Ok, let's drill down on specific problems.  
racial justice, covid crisis relief, domestic violence, health, mental health crisis intervention, housing and shelter, employment, civil rights social action, environment and animals, food agriculture nutrition, public safety disaster relief, foreign affairs and national security, science tech, education, arts humanities, recreation sports

Where are the big projects? Chamath says they'll include climate, biotech, education, and food.  
What do most Americans work on now? (They drive trucks.) What might that potentially look like in the future?
TODO \* More concretely, which specific industries, and groups of companies, are the most constrained by human capital and need the most urgent help?