---
title:  "Piano culture"
date:   2020-07-03 17:46:00 -0800
categories: update
---

I'm surfing piano culture after a long long separation from it. On one hand, being away from piano gives me the perspective to question things I took for granted. On the other hand, All I ever do is think and worry. The point of buying a piano is to force myself to finally Do Something; to re-enter piano subculture without the pressure of studio class; to practice practicing; to show myself that I can indeed produce something, however small, that the world values.

The whole idea of 8 pianists performing in a row, starting with webern and ending with rhapsodie espagnole-- how in 7 hells is a layperson supposed to process that? I cringe to imagine how the layperson would've thought about me in 2013-- Asian #5 in a string of 6 consecutive Asians. (Related: read the comments in any table tennis youtube video.) It feels so transactional. There's no "foreplay" between performer and audience. There's no reverence for the crazy idea that a day full of city-sounds (traffic, sirens) can be punctuated by 20 minutes of choreographed Liquid Harmony. That, 10000 years ago, a caveman sang 2 notes a perfect octave apart, and felt good, and since then, humans have been building and building upon that until they made this crazy thing called a Bach fugue, whose pieces fit together like jigsaw puzzles.
In 2013, piano was my identity! But like a G-league journeyman who never makes it to the big leagues, I never quite penetrated the circle of the international elite.

Also, what is it about that Chopin nocturne (op 62 no 1) that seemed... disingenuous, despite its technical perfection? If I was in studio class, (remember studio class? remember scavenging for criticism?) I would have no criticism. But the nocturne didn't move me the way that things in 2015-2019 have moved me, (blasphemous pop and R&B music). Classical music at its best can be every bit as orgiastic as the billboard top 100. But somebody has to bridge the chasm between the music's supplier and its demander. Demander. Right, demand!

When I practice something over and over again, the emotional impact wears out like a rubber band. How can I combat this? Maybe, before practicing, record some voice memos to capture the expressiveness in every little pocket. And also to capture something higher-level, something broader. (Something that I'm... having trouble describing.) Interpretation. The right level of rubato. Like, "What about this music sparks joy?" "What about it enchanted me during the first few listens?" 
I want the end result to come from my voice. Not Ling Ling's. I don't want to be tethered to status-quo opinions (like this prelude being too fast). Opinions like these are overrated, because they're obvious to people who've heard it many times. What about somebody hearing it for the first time? Would they pause if they heard it on the street?
Identify precisely what is emotionally resonant. (alex blumberg, "daddy it's pleasing to the eye when people do the same thing at the same time") Don't let things get old. Chase after a new thing.

It’s just really hard to follow Stravinsky and Scriabin or Ravel harmonically if you don’t have Liszt as context.
Like the Ravel trio. I'm re-listening to it after 5 years away, I can't figure out where the downbeat is, and the violin melodies over augmented piano plonks just don't hit the same. It sounds much emptier than I remembered. The frenetic moments build & pass much quicker-- I listen through them rather than inside of them. It's like, I'm not the right degree of zoomed-in.
Tiffany poon practice vlogs. I love her annotations ("follow pedal markings!" "gentler on the phrase ending!") but I definitely don’t practice like that zoomed-in. I have to spend more time playing creatively, to build muscle memory and range without digging a rut into the green.

## Something else

Step 1: identify an inefficiency in society. Step 2: push hard to correct it with all your might. Step 3: unfortunately, society is so big that you can push your hardest, 80 hrs/wk, for years without making a dent. Unfortunately, this process may leave you calcified, with blind spots. ([like this podcast](https://gimletmedia.com/shows/reply-all/o2ho97/119-no-more-safe-harbor)) this happens over and over again? How do you ensure that you’re never pushing for something slightly off-target, something with a pernicious negative externality? Sabbaticals are one answer. Like sabbaticals, we need to design mechanisms in the research/argumentation process that strongly encourage the challenging of assumptions. These mechanisms must be undertaken in good faith! (Not like a token counter argument in an opinion piece.) It (philosophy) is a process of whittling away at your mission statement— that must be done in good faith— that usually converges on something awfully similar to a “core value”: respect, responsibility, caring, fairness, trustworthiness, citizenship.
