---
title:  "Career"
date:   2026-02-14 00:00:00 -0800
---

I've been in a midlife crisis for the past 6 years. My life and career are stagnant. I feel spiritually unfulfilled, but I'm not sure why. What is it exactly that I want to do? What am I chasing?  
I want to work in climate tech, because I want to use my career to help solve the world's most pressing problems like a good effective altruist.  
But that's so broad. What specifically do I want to do? Who specifically am I trying to emulate?

- [Stanford energy club winter projects](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1CfWXi8Z-T7RLP0Ib9I58gaymx8fIeQNdBpk1L8RY1_4/edit?tab=t.0): product for Halcyon, finance stratops for Hyfin, market research for Halo energy.  
Ok, so entry-level positions are business/product-focused.
- [SFCW Forging Your Path in Climate Tech](https://vimeo.com/939737300) These leadership positions are also product-focused.
- Stanford Haas center public service internships: policy, energy research, PCJ fellowships: outreach, education, community organizing, policy.
- Joel Dapello worked for Adam Marblestone on neuroscience & AI research. Lots of math and physics prodigies eventually go into AI.
- I browsed through my LinkedIn connections. Many of my old classmates are in regular jobs (i.e. finance). Why am I worried about trying to impress these people? I don't need to be.
- [Hannah's job](https://thelawrentian.lawrenceville.org/issues/fall-2025/conservation-through-collaboration/) seems interesting. Environmental studies, marine policy. Her day-to-day work involves outreach, grant writing, networking, data collection.
- Kevin and George are in business school to study food/ag and industrial decarb. Kevin wrote a blog post about Biden's American Climate Corps (which Trump killed on his first day in office). A lot of folks are going back to business school. Maybe I could study management science and engineering?
Cindy went to business school to study "healthcare in emerging markets".
- I'm also browsing this thread: [Hidden Gems in terms of careers \| r/careerguidance](https://www.reddit.com/r/careerguidance/comments/1qpi2om/hidden_gems_in_terms_of_careers/): wastewater treatment, food distribution, actuary, manufacturing, etc. Civil engineering sounds nice-. I'd like to help build infrastructure.

Is climate tech even the right thing to focus on? One could argue that the climate crisis is more of a political/information problem than a technology problem. The science and technology solutions are well-understood-- the problem is we need to be building them and scaling them up a lot faster. That requires shifting public opinion and overcoming political barriers. Nevertheless, I still think that personally focusing on tech is a decent idea. It'll help me develop my street smarts, and it can be used as a stepping stone to entrepreneurship. (I'm reading Dan Wang's Breakneck and I agree that America needs to be 20% more engineering-focused and China needs to be 20% more lawyerly.)  
I feel like a hard-tech role in an early/mid-stage startup is my best path forward. And even if it isn't, I need to take a leap of faith. I've been too conservative in my early career. I need to take a risk and get out of the ivory tower and into the real world. The fact that I have the financial freedom to pursue my interests is such a privilege-- What a waste it would be to squander that! All my career, I've been like the person sitting on a couch at the edge of the disco floor, scrolling on their phone. It's time to get up and dance! As Donald Glover said, "Nobody lying on their deathbed is going to think 'thank God I avoided being cringe'." 

Ok, let's think. What are some concrete steps I can take to build my career and life? Let's say I want to connect with the community. I can try reaching out to old friends. But when I message them, most of them don't seem interested in talking to me!
<!-- Groupvibers, Gordon, Annie, Marcos, Carmen, James at work, Elliot at the Lville mixer.  -->
Also, I'm ugly. Whenever I look at my face in the mirror, I'm overcome by revulsion and sadness. I've been working on my skincare routine, but it will take months for the retinol to show an effect. Turn that disgust into determination. Do some pushups. Do some skincare research online. Become passionate about not only surface-level skincare, but also full-body health ([Five healthy habits to build in your 20s and 30s | Stanford Report](https://news.stanford.edu/stories/2026/01/healthy-habits-diet-exercise-expert-advice-20s-30s).  
Also, I can't carry a conversation. Last week at lunch, my coworkers were talking about robotics, AI, and the shrimp welfare project. I had nothing interesting to say on any topic. Eventually the two other people at the table started talking directly to each other. Sad. Ok, so let's go back and study some key talking points: Shrimp are crustaceans. We can experiment on them in the lab. We can't know their qualitative experience, but we can observe their aggressive behaviors, neurotransmitter levels, other physiological markers, etc. Shrimps nurse their wounds, providing strong evidence that they experience pain. We should advocate for electrical stunning rather than drowning them in ice slurry. We should advocate against eyestalk ablation (which increases female hormone production in captive shrimp).   
But my goal is not to make interesting conversation at dinner parties. My goal is to have meaningful friendships. How can I feel truly connected to other people? How do I make my relationships more-than-transactional? Often, in California, I felt that people only wanted to talk to me because I was good at music. Now here in New York, I'm relatively bad at everything. So what value can I offer the people around me?

In an effort to address my immense confusion over how to live life, I joined a church book club last month. We are reading Ryan Kemp's "What We Are in the Light", a book that packs a punch (in a good way). I feel like Kemp is really onto something regarding the "deep cultural sickness" that afflicts modern society. As a college professor, he meets a lot of confused young people. I feel very seen by his descriptions of young-adult loneliness, existentialism, and distraction. It's like I'm a medical patient and he's listing a bunch of symptoms that exactly match mine. And his prescriptions are very strong:
- Love your neighbor without expecting anything in return.
- Deepen your existing bonds rather than jumping to greener pastures.
- Limit modern technology and AI. Give space for things to breathe.
- Pursue wisdom, not knowledge.
- Have kids as an actualization of radical love.
These prescriptions are bitter pills for me to swallow. Some of them are directly at odds with my lifestyle (e.g. trading in your smartphone for a "dumb phone"). And I'm personally against having kids, for moral reasons. But reading these ideas and taking them seriously excites me in a way that I haven't felt in a while.

In 2019, I was thinking a lot about research, grad school, industry, academia, and mental health. Six years later, I'm a bit too old for grad school. Here's what I'm thinking about now: Volunteer opportunities, making friends, community, spiritual health, and career fulfillment. I'm "seeking inspiration, mentorship, and foundational networks".

#### A reflection on my previous post

It's totally possible that dedicating my life to mathematical modeling might not even be a net positive for society. Modeling done poorly can have disastrous consequences. Look at the One Child Policy; it was heavily influenced by cybernetics experts and applied mathematicians who wrote papers such as "Population System Control" (1985). They vastly overestimated the certainty of their projections, and they failed to recognize a major counterbalancing force: standard-of-living increases were already causing fertility rates to decline naturally. Most importantly, they didn't comprehend the vast suffering that millions of women and families would experience at the hands of the policy. To put it bluntly, they applied an engineering mindset to a social/cultural problem, and they were missing a bit of the humanities-- the softer stuff. Now they have egg on their face and they're trying (and failing) to crank fertility rates in the opposite direction. Let the One Child Policy be a lesson to decision makers who would over-rely on mathematical projections and control theory. It takes real practice to get good at applied math, and real wisdom to know how to deploy it in policy.
